## Definition of OpenCL
OpenCL(tm) is an open standard for programming parallel, heterogenous systems. It is currently maintained and developed by Khronos(R) Group.
Devices mainly targeted by OpenCL are Graphics Processing Units, Central Processing Units, various accelerators and Digital Signal Processors.
OpenCL provides an API, which provides a high-level and abstract layer for the programmer to send commands to devices.
Platforms (which can support multiple devices) are accessible with a proper driver which is registered by its vendor as an ICD (Installabe Client Driver). OpenCL API provides functions to enumerate these platforms and their devices. For example a single nVidia(R) platform can control two nVidia devices. Another Intel(R) platform can control an Intel CPU. All OpenCL API functions are called by the host (master).
In comparison to nVidia's proprietary CUDA(tm), OpenCL is not limited to a single vendor and can be freely ported to various platforms such as embedded single board computers.
Main use cases of OpenCL are transferring data between the host and the devices, compiling a kernel (with a compiler which should be provided by the platform's vendor) and enqueuing this kernel on a device. Enqueuing is not a blocking call, therefore the host can request running kernels/transfers on multiple devices with the use of proper context. A blocking call `clFinish` is used for waiting on a specific device for all the kernels/transfers to be finished executing. There's also a possibility to attach a host-side callback function for a specific kernel/enqueue or return an event object, which can provide some insight like execution time of a single kernel.
Enqueuing is done with setting parameters such as global and local workgroup sizes and dimensions. Different devices have different optimal support for workgroups.
